XP short for?
XP -experience ? developer-only Extreme Programming
The “XP Game” is a fun and playful simulation of the XP
development process. 

How xp game relate to real agile programming.
How do people play the xp game in the real industry? a example?


All agile methodologies have some common principles and values, with an emphasis on individuals, interactions, delivery of working software, collaboration, responding to change and reflection. The different characteristics of the methods make them suitable for different circumstances.



Steps:

	the players are divided into small teams(4 or 8),each
team consists of developers and customers. A coach assists each team,
to explain and guide the game and to answer questions. 

	The coach gives the team a small set of prewritten story cards. These cards describe simple tasks, such as “Build a two-story house of cards,” “Throw a six five times using two dice,” and “Find a missing card from a pack of cards.”

	The team members (acting as developers) estimate how long it will take them to “implement” the tasks. The coach is available to answer questions about the stories. The team may choose a time between ten and 60 seconds. Or they may declare that it’s impossible to implement the task in 60 seconds. When all the stories have been estimated, the
cards are handed back to the coach.


Estimating: How Hard Can This Be?
One of the most difficult aspects of working with velocity is convincing developers to estimate consistently. The velocity factor includes all the variable parts of team performance: experience, knowledge of the problem domain, team size, adding and removing team members, interruptions,
and so on. If the planning game is to result in realistic schedules, stories should be estimated consistently in terms of their relative required effort. Developers should not try to adjust their estimates

Planning with Risk
Most of the stories depend only on skill and teamwork. We can expect
the team to perform consistently on these tasks.


Conclusion
The XP Game is a fun and playful way of simulating the XP process. It
enables the participants to experience, in a relaxed environment, several
of the XP practices: user stories, estimation, the planning game, acceptance
tests, short releases, sustainable pace, progress tracking, and velocity.
It is ideally suited as a follow-up to a tutorial on these practices.
The competition, team effort, and fun aspects make it a great teambuilding
tool: Playing the game improves trust and communication between
developers and businesspeople.
The XP Game has been played in companies transitioning to XP,
during XP tutorials, and at software engineering conferences. The participants
always have fun and feel they have learned more about the XP
practices.
And Lesire Software Engineering? They’re still doing XP and delivering
working software to their customers. Developers and businesspeople
are working together and enjoying it.

